"When you participate in a clinical trial for a cancer treatment, you are guaranteed to receive either the treatment under study or the best available standard treatment. Unlike clinical studies in other therapeutic areas, patients in cancer trials receive a sugar pill placebo only if no standard treatment exists. Clinical trials offer you the opportunity to receive new cancer therapies not otherwise available. These therapies represent the most cutting edge thinking among research oncologists. Cancer is one of the most active areas in medical research today. At any time, thousands of clinical trials are underway on new cancer drugs and treatments. There may be multiple trials available nearby."


"Patients in cancer clinical trials receive increased monitoring and attention from nurses and doctors due to being in the trial.  Other benefits to participating in a cancer clinical trial include: 1) You may receive access to cutting edge treatments that aren’t available anywhere else. 2) It offers another option if your cancer has become resistant to treatment or has reoccurred. 3) You can help further medical research not only for yourself but for other cancer patients as well."


"All medical treatments carry risks, even those that have been used by thousands of patients.  Not all treatments prove to be better than the standard of care and may produce additional side effects.  Yet all clinical trials must meet rigorous guidelines designed to protect you.  You will be monitored very closely during the trial for any potential side effects or problems.  Also, the health care professional involved in the study will explain any known or anticipated risks to you before you commit to the trial.  This is part of the informed consent process."


"Informed consent is your right as a trial participant.  This document will outline the purpose of the study, the exact treatment you will receive, all possible side effects, and your right to withdraw at any point.  Signing the informed consent form acknowledges that the trial was explained to you and your understand it.  However, you can withdraw from a clinical trial at any time, even after signing the informed consent form."


"You can use our search tool (below) to find clinical trials that you could be eligible for. If you find one you are interested in participating in, consult your doctor to see if it is a good fit for you."
